---
title: At Scale
---

I've given up on counting the number of times I've heard the phrase "at scale", as it often turns my spine to glass. It could easily be an environmental bias, based on the type of business I've worked at, the sorts of customers we targeted, and other similar factors. 

But without performing the search of all youtube-recorded-sales-engineering-presentations, I'm comfortable saying that the vast majority of those marketing products today love using the phrase 'at scale'. 

Rarely do I meet someone who knows what they mean when they say it. The easiest way to determine whether or not that is the case if you hear someone mention the cursed phrase is to ask anything slightly more specific: 

- What scale? 
- Why scale? 
- How (does your product / service help me) scale?

Great sales people can dance on this topic, most fall down at this point. 

Why is this phrase overused? What is the point of 'scale'? 

As with many unseen biases, this one is a quagmire of different inputs. 

_One is simply the matter of the fact: if you could handle something yourself, what good is the product or service?_

This is an oft-forgotten fact - the reason a product or service needs to exist in the first place is that the human(s) involved in whatever thing that product-service can accomplish for them - would probably take the time to just take the actions themselves if they could. 

_With an infinite time horizon, wouldn't you just do it yourself? You've got the time..._

Ensuring that your product or service remains competitive then is a tough prospect. You either find yourself with a black box: a service or product whose construction and operation is so secritive that the customer cannot know its method, only its output - or a process that is known to the customer, they just simply don't have the time to take on the action themselves. 

_Never enough hours in the day_. 

In comes 'scale': In principle the definition/reasoning for 'scale' is simply that: 

- You have the right idea / approach / business model / PMF
- You simply don't have enough time to do it yourself
- Employing humans to do the task is too costly or onerous. 

All scale starts here: and you can easily see the meta-level of scale coming: when you get 1 team doing it vs. 5 vs. 10 (see Scaled Agile).

_In the same way that everyone thinks that they COULD win the lottery, everyone worries that they MIGHT be too successful_. 

Scale, and the corresponding actions people take to _prepare_ for it: buying products, automating manual tasks, e.g., is not for everyone. Not everything needs scale. 