---
title: Arless' echo
---

Old Bob was holding court, and the conversation  fluttered amongst the day's topics. As a murmur of voices swelled and ebbed, Old Bob sat forward to make a point. 

_Arless doesn't agree with that._

_How do you know, Bob?_

Arless hadn't been in the room for some time; in fact the door to the pine box Arless kept cozy hadn't been open for some time. 

_She imprinted on me!_ - he chuckled. 

The room didn't share his exaultations, so he took it upon himslef to expound. 

_I hear her everywhere I go, we speak as though she's still in the room with me._ 

A nervous chuckle could be felt amongst the whispers - had he started to lose it!? Feeling the tide shift away from he he quickly continued. 

_There's nothing magical about this, let me prove this to you. Everyone close your eyes for a second: think about a cold winter, freshly dusted snow on the ground. Step your boot into the fresh packed snow (doesn't it feel great?). You leave an imprint._

You could tell there were some beach folk in the room, the metaphor still held true. 

_You can view your mind in very much the same way. Everything you encounter leaves an imprint on you. And I can prove it to you: just think about your breakfast this morning! What did it look like? What did it smell like? Your breakfast imprinted on you!_

He continued: _Im one of the lucky people who fell deeply in love with my wife, and because of that her imprinting had a special effect on me. Places I go, things I see, the decades of conversations we had - all of them left such an imprint on me._

_Even though she no longer speaks, she still speaks to me. Her imprint is one so deep that somewhere amongst my grey matter she has left an echo of herself. She did this to everyone she met, so I can't say that I'm particularly special._

_But I can say without a doubt, her echo is special to me,a nd I like to think I had the same effect on her._

Throughout the room, a set of involuntary spasms twisted the biceps and triceps of those in attendance. Glasses of all shapes and sizes hoisted in the air, their lips touching, vibrating. 

Arless' echo amplified, and finally receded into the woodwork as court resumed.