---
title: What is an engineer really?
---

I never really considered myself to be an engineer, but many suffer from imposter's syndrome. Though there is a real disciple in the art of engineering, and to be true and honest I've never had the blessing of such a knowledge. Training is the right metaphor here too, as with many engineering functions you are instilling a rote practice of implementation, as well as the ehereal and esoteric concepts that drive the 'appropriate' action if one were to act as a professional. 

While suffering a bit, from that lack of training or practice, when entering my career - I am a living case of the truth of the matter - that you can gain the consituent parts that such a formal education can bring you, can come from other places. 

This is by no means to denegrate what is gained from formal training in this way - in fact I believe you should revere it for what it is, including each of its constiutent focus areas and skills gained. 

Listening to Jon Ronson's interview with _the_ "Brandon" - it reminded me of most of the southern / Texan culture's apprach to military and militias. It's pervasive in the places I grew up in (which admittedy were near Army bases). But the level of sophistication we're talking about here runs the gammot between hunting club and boy scouts, but in many ways the only difference between militia and military is who is sanctioning and what is the budget. 

An example - the Boy Scouts - 

In Alabama at the time (and likely is still the case) - once you achieved the highest rank one can get to in Scouts (the majestic Eagle, no less) - you can come back another year to jump up a level to what 'big kids' did - C.O.P.E. 

No clue to this day what it stands for. 

It was the only time I ate hardboiled eggs in a group meal, and it's not been repeated since. THe wonderbread didn't help offsetting the backdrop of Cool Hand Luke. 

This week-long camping outing, upon reflection, was nothing more than that training that is shared with militias and militaries. 

Teaching someone how to shoot, alone, is actually quite dangerous. In situations where you need to act like the Corp of Engineers (rather than the Fighters for Freedom) even, your problem solving, mental actuity under stress, and group-think - wayyyy more important. 

And I'd argue your 'field' engineers come equipped with these skills. On the subject, there's a disturbing lack of 'field engineering' skills in the world of software engineering. B2B software engineers suffer acutely, if my experience is any representation of the wider market. 

The days there involved quite a bit of manual labor, with a hint of ancient greek riddle - the fox, chicken, grain exercise using planks connected to piles of rubble - an oration by a proctor, which included sounds, specific-but-subtle-body-motions, and specific orders of action: the students would follow on and try to 'repeat' the actions in order. 
As the guesses were wrong more and more over time, the actions presented were repeated, with greater exageration, until the group started to pick up on it. 

These skills to this day, the ability to gauge 'level of detail' - problem solving in a group - and on : they are integral to the successful engineer. Certainly managers without the skills are underequipped for success, but equally every successful engineer has to gain a sub/superset of these core areas. A good example of the fact that costinuent parts are integral, but not unique to the practice - it is but one of many of the skills that comprise the successful engineer. 
